ROOMSIM CHANGE RECORD

  Matlab m-code extended and tested, adding:
1) More comprehensive comment. Kalles surface_sign and surface_coefficient signs changed to correspond  with Allen & Berkley’s values to ease referencing their work. 
2) RT60 calculation by Norris-Eyring+Air (Tests were run cf Sabine, Sabine+Air, High Absorption Sabine+Air, Low Absorption Sabine+Air, Fitzroy+Air)
3) Colour coded and labelled plotting of room geometry with room surfaces displayed as transparent coloured faces.
4) Multiple sources enabled.
5) Calculation of quantities in deep loops reorganised to increase execution speed, run time reduced by 33%.
6) Variable elevation for source.
7) Half length impulse response offset in delay corrected.
8) Attenuation Effect of distance on surface reflections applied to image sources before convolution with HRIR
9) Smoothing filter added as described in Peterson Ref A5 (useful for two-sensor case).
10) Single and Two sensor array as alternative to HRIR.
11) Calculation of speed of sound dependent on Temperature.
12) Calculation of Air absorption dependent on humidity.
13) Spline interpolation of Air absorption data tables (BUT now replaced by formula for m).
14) Convolution of surface reflection with Air replaced by product of Spectra.
15) Implementation of effect of distance on the reflected impulse corrected to take account of image source distance (1/R) and air absorption. Checked against calculated values for first few impulses.
16) Interactive data input for set-up via dialogue boxes and menus.
17) Set-up from a *.MAT or an Excel spreadsheet file picked from dialogue box presentation.
18) Simple directionality added for single and two-sensor receivers.
19) "Invisible" image sources distinguished or suppressed during plotting.
20) Checks for receiver, primary source(s) and sensors within room boundaries.
21) MIT Kemar data converted to MAT file and stored as hrir_final.mat in folder “Kemar\compact” for faster accessing and commonality of approach with CIPIC.
22) Access enabled to CIPIC real head and Kemar data set. These required different co-ordinate systems.
23) Schematic head added for geometric display when MIT or CIPIC are selected.
24) Two (L&R) sensors colour coded and indicated in display when two-sensor, MIT or CIPIC are selected.
25) Display of visibility and intensity fields of image sources (via colormaps) for single, two sensor, MIT and CIPIC receivers.
26) Room surface transparency displayed as proportional to surface reflectivity.
27) List of surfaces sourced from Excel spreadsheet to allow easy update by user even for compiled version for non-MATLAB users.
28) Plot of Transfer Function magnitude with superimposed HRTF also shown where appropriate.
29) All scripts recast as functions to allow compilation (users without MATLAB can run the *.exe)
30) Re-display of impulse, TF, 2D and 3D supported, without recomputation of image data.
31) Replacement code written for FIR2 and Hann window  to remove reliance on DSP SIGNAL toolbox.
32) Matlab convolution routine replaced by use of FILTER primitive (for speed up).
33) Spectrogram display added to convolution function used in convolving audio file with impulse response.
34) High-Pass filter option added as per Allen & Berkley
35) Code inserted to handle inappropriate exits from dialogue boxes using CANCEL buttons to avoid crashing.
36) Impulse responses checked individually surface by surface, also for  paired opposed surfaces and various multi surface combinations eg 4 walls no ceiling or floor. Checked against calculated values for first few impulses.
37) Program calculates order if requested, warns of possible long simulation time, and allows change.
38) Program calculates impulse response length, warns of possible long simulation time, and allows change.
39) MIT angle quantisation code vectorised to increase execution speed.
40) Convolution of impulse response file (*.mat or *.wav) and audio file (*.mat or *.wav) built in as menu choice and can be saved (*.mat, or *.wav for playing with a MSwindows compatible media player)
41) Core code modified to ignore “invisible/inaudible” sources (speed up obtained).
42) Added ABOUT info function.
43) Added GNU GPL menu choice and text for probable future activation.
44) Valid frequency range for specular calculations now printed to MATLAB command window.
45) Screen writes replaced by write to log file.
46) Restriction to *.wav and *.mat now forced on read and save of audio files.
47) Audio file impulse response variable renamed ( and converter roomsim_old2new written and tested)
48) Converter for audio files *.mat to *.wav and vice versa written and tested
